#summary How to set up a development environment for Cadmos.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =
The target audience of this page are developers that extend and maintain the Cadmos code base.
This page describes the steps to set up a working development environment. 

= Prerequisites =
Cadmos is developed using new Java 7 language features like inferred type parameters (e.g {{{Set<String> names = new HashSet<>();}}}), so you need a Java 7 runtime or SDK on the development machine, e.g. available at [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html] .

= Install Eclipse e4 =
Cadmos has a _"pure Java"_ *core* part and an eclipse e4 based *ui* part.
Eclipse e4 has build-in full Java 7 support starting from version 4.1.1, which can be downloaded and installed for many platforms and operating systems from [http://download.eclipse.org/eclipse/downloads/] . 

= Install Subclipse =
Cadmos uses SVN for version control, which is supported by several client integrations for eclipse.
We use a eclipse SVN client called *subclipse*.

You can use this eclipse update manager url to install subclipse 1.8.x: [http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.8.x]

= Install ConQAT Rating Support =
Cadmos uses a review based quality rating (*RED*, *YELLOW* or *GREEN*) for each file:
 * *RED:* File is under development or has pending todos after review.
 * *YELLOW:* File is marked _"ready for review"_ by developer.
 * *GREEN:* File passed review.
This quality rating is tool-supported for eclipse by the *ConQAT rating support*, which can be installed by the eclipse update manager, using the url: [http://www4.in.tum.de/~ccsm/eclipse_update_site]

For our purposes, it is sufficient to select solely the plug-in *"ConQAT Development Tools"* in the eclipse update manager.

= Enable SVN Auto-Properties =
In your system's SVN *config* file, some SVN-properties need to be added in the {{{[auto-props]}}} section:

 * Make a backup copy of the original config file.
 * Open the config file with a text editor (e.g. notepad).
 * Go to the {{{[auto-props]}}} section.
 * Add the entry {{{*.java = svn:mime-type=text/plain;svn:eol-style=native;svn:keywords=Date Author Id Revision HeadURL}}}
 * Save the config file.

This automatically adds the SVN-properties (mime-type, eol-style, keywords) to new java-files when these are commited for the first time.

By convention we use the keywords $Author: $ and $Rev: $ in header comments of Cadmos java-files, to automatically include the latest author and revision of a java-file on commit.

On Windows systems, the SVN config file is typically found in a path similar to {{{*...\<user>\AppData\Roaming\Subversion*}}}.

= Check-out the Source =
Follow the guidelines on [http://code.google.com/p/cadmos/source/checkout] to check-out the source into your eclipse workspace.